README.md, before:

# move_deactivated_servers

This Python script will move deactivated servers contained in the
Halo Group tree scope of the API Key specified into a specified
group (moveToGroupName) based on number of days the server has been in
a deactivated state (move_deactivate_num_days). Then the script will
delete servers in the specified group (moveToGroupName) that have been
deactivated for more than X days (delete_deactivate_num_days)

This will help cloud forward customers with highly elastic environments
keep their active server groups clean. Also this will allow for the issues
per group reports to contain information for only active or recently
deactivated servers and prevent reporting on systems that are no longer
online or active.

Use the following to redirect script output to a log file
>python serverCleanup.py >  serverCleanup.$(date +%Y-%m-%d_%H:%M).log 2>&1

IMPORTANT:
This script was built for Python 2.7.11 or later and requires an OpenSSL
version compatible with TLS1.2 or newer
Check python OpenSSL version

  >python
  then run "import ssl"
  then run "ssl.OPENSSL_VERSION"

Should show something similar to:
'OpenSSL 1.0.2g  1 Mar 2016'


Python Module Prerequisites:
This script requires the following Python modules:
json, base64, datetime, sys, argparse, pytz, requests, iso8601
Use PIP to install these if you are encountering errors for missing modules
for pytz, requests, iso8601, os, os.path
   > pip install requests, pytz, iso8601

The script takes advantage of the new server field last_state_change and
is intended to be run from cron on a restricted-access tools server or
bastion box once daily.  Since last_state_change is only expressed in whole
days after a server has been offline for more than 24 hours, there is little
advantage to running it more often.

You will need a config.py file that includes the deactivated server group name
specified. -- see the sample file.

In the config.py is a api_key_path variable that specifies the location of your api_keys.txt file, if the file is not stored with this script (the default setting already configured), you will need to enter the full path to the file in the config.py file.

You will need to create a file named api_keys.txt that contains your API Key ID and API Key Secret using this format
> apikeyID:apikeySecret

The keypair must have full access (read-write), and as always, you will want to
protect the security

By default, servers that have been deactivated for more than 7 days will be
moved by the script to the specified group. To change this, modify the value
of move_deactivate_num_days in the config.py file.

By default, servers that have been deactivated for more than 14 days and reside
in the moveToGroupName group will be deleted by the script.
To change this, modify the value of delete_deactivate_num_days in the
config.py file.

Commit message:

v1.0
Changed to read in command line arguments to specify actions to perform

README.md, after:

# move_deactivated_servers

This Python script will move deactivated servers contained in the
Halo Group tree scope of the API Key specified into a specified
group (moveToGroupName) based on number of days the server has been in
a deactivated state (move_deactivate_num_days). Then the script will
delete servers in the specified group (moveToGroupName) that have been
deactivated for more than X days (delete_deactivate_num_days)

This will help cloud forward customers with highly elastic environments
keep their active server groups clean. Also this will allow for the issues
per group reports to contain information for only active or recently
deactivated servers and prevent reporting on systems that are no longer
online or active.

Use the following to redirect script output to a log file
>python serverCleanup.py >  serverCleanup.$(date +%Y-%m-%d_%H:%M).log 2>&1

IMPORTANT:
This script was built for Python 2.7.11 or later and requires an OpenSSL
version compatible with TLS1.2 or newer
Check python OpenSSL version

  >python
  then run "import ssl"
  then run "ssl.OPENSSL_VERSION"

Should show something similar to:
'OpenSSL 1.0.2g  1 Mar 2016'


Python Module Prerequisites:
This script requires the following Python modules:
json, base64, datetime, sys, argparse, pytz, requests, iso8601
Use PIP to install these if you are encountering errors for missing modules
for pytz, requests, iso8601, os, os.path
   > pip install requests, pytz, iso8601

For RPM Linux or MAC: run script_requirements.sh to install python modules needed for serverCleanup.py

This script uses command line argument to specify what methods the script should run.
Run serverCleanup.py --help to view options

serverCleanup.py --help
usage: serverCleanup.py [-h] [--moveservers] [--deleteservers]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help       show this help message and exit
  --moveservers    Move all deactivated servers to group specified in
                   config.py (moveToGroupName) file that have been deactivated
                   for more than days specified in move_deactivate_num_days
  --deleteservers  Delete all deactivated servers in group specified in
                   config.py (moveToGroupName) file that have been deactivated
                   for more than days specified in delete_deactivate_num_days


The script takes advantage of the new server field last_state_change and
is intended to be run from cron on a restricted-access tools server or
bastion box once daily.  Since last_state_change is only expressed in whole
days after a server has been offline for more than 24 hours, there is little
advantage to running it more often.

You will need a config.py file that includes the deactivated server group name
specified. -- see the sample file.

In the config.py is a api_key_path variable that specifies the location of your api_keys.txt file, if the file is not stored with this script (the default setting already configured), you will need to enter the full path to the file in the config.py file.

You will need to create a file named api_keys.txt that contains your API Key ID and API Key Secret using this format
> apikeyID:apikeySecret

The keypair must have full access (read-write), and as always, you will want to
protect the security

By default, servers that have been deactivated for more than 7 days will be
moved by the script to the specified group. To change this, modify the value
of move_deactivate_num_days in the config.py file.

By default, servers that have been deactivated for more than 14 days and reside
in the moveToGroupName group will be deleted by the script.
To change this, modify the value of delete_deactivate_num_days in the
config.py file.
